README: Task Management System

Overview
This is a RESTful API for managing tasks, implemented using Node.js and Express. It supports basic CRUD operations, task completion, and includes basic authentication.

Design Decisions

Architecture:
Used Express for lightweight and scalable API development.
Divided the application into clear modules: routes, controllers, and models for separation of concerns.

Data Storage:
Chose an in-memory data store for simplicity in this case study. A database like MongoDB or PostgreSQL would be ideal for production.

Authentication:
Implemented Basic Authentication for simplicity, with credentials hardcoded (admin:password).
Validation and Error Handling:

Basic validation is implemented for required fields (title and due_date).
Used appropriate HTTP status codes for each response (e.g., 404 for not found, 400 for bad request, etc.).

Timestamps:
Automatically added created_at and updated_at fields for task tracking.
Assumptions

Data Structure:
Each task has a unique id, title, optional description, a due_date, and a status with default value pending.

Authentication:
No user roles or advanced token-based auth (e.g., JWT) are implemented for simplicity.
Only one user (admin) is supported.

Environment:
The system runs on localhost using Node.js.
Port is fixed to 3000.

Scalability:
The in-memory storage limits the application's scalability and persistence.
Suitable for small-scale or demo use only.

Setup and Usage

Install Dependencies:

bash
Copy code
npm install
Run the Server:

bash

Copy code
node src/app.js

Test API Endpoints:
Use Postman or cURL to test the endpoints.

Include the Authorization header (Authorization : YWRtaW46cGFzc3dvcmQ=).

Endpoints:

GET /tasks: Retrieve all tasks.
GET /tasks/:id: Retrieve a specific task.
POST /tasks: Create a new task.
PUT /tasks/:id: Update an existing task.
DELETE /tasks/:id: Delete a task.
PATCH /tasks/:id/complete: Mark a task as complete.

Run Tests:

bash
Copy code
npm test
Future Improvements
Integrate with a persistent database (e.g., MongoDB).
Replace Basic Authentication with JWT or OAuth for enhanced security.
Add user management with roles and permissions.
Implement pagination and filtering for GET /tasks.

Feel free to explore the API and customize it for your needs! 🚀
